there's a special delivery for the vets
at our cast rescue center
animals find their way here from all
over guatemala
most of them victims of the illegal pet
trade
[Music]
with over 700 animals of all shapes and
sizes
the center is already at full capacity
but they tried to turn no one away
you give me a hand
the latest arrival is just one month old
we've got a baby spider monkey here
giving up to the authorities in
guatemala city
they send her up to us
people keeping monkeys upset is sadly
quite common
the only way to get a baby monkey like
her is to kill the mother
and then keep this little baby orphan
in a human environment
alejandro morales has dedicated his life
to saving animals
and trained as a vet so that he could
make a difference
his partner anna bryant is a zoologist
from new zealand
and takes care of all the young orphaned
animals that come through the door
there's a very traumatic time for them
they've been ripped away from their
mother and they've been
stuck in a box or in a car for god knows
how long so
it's for the best that she's here now
the baby monkey
is now at the start of a five-year
journey through the rescue center
which will culminate with her release
back into the wild
[Music]
after a period in quarantine she will
join up with other rescued spider
monkeys
to form their own troop
[Music]
here she will hopefully find a mate and
go on to rear her own young
eventually her trip will be moved into a
much larger enclosure within the forest
this will be the final stage of the
rehabilitation
[Music]
[Applause]
you